Content audit: DeFi (#11098)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/defi/index.md

template: use-cases
emoji: ":money_with_wings:"
image: ../../assets/use-cases/defi.png
alt: City scape with defi product signs
summaryPoint1: DeFi operates without centralized intermediaries
summaryPoint2: Products that let you borrow, save, invest, trade, and more.
summaryPoint3: Based on open-source technology that anyone can program with.
---

## What is decentralized finance (DeFi)? {#what-is-defi}

Decentralized finance, also known as DeFi, is a peer-to-peer financial ecosystem built on Ethereum. It creates financial services like payments, lending, borrowing, and trading using Ethereum and <a href="/glossary/#smart-contract">smart contracts</a>.

### DeFi compared to traditional financial services {#defi-compared}

Defi stands out from traditional financial services in several significant ways:

- **Non-custodial** - Users maintain custody of their keys ensuring access their assets returning more control to the user

> - **Open access** - Decentralized finance operates across border, providing open access to financial services without geographical restrictions

Author: I don't think it's necessary, but im not strongly against it either.

> - **Open access** - Decentralized finance operates across border, providing open access to financial services without geographical restrictions

Reviewer: well, from my context seeing life situations of many here in pakistan, especially Afghan refugees, they are not having issued any documentation from PK government. This means they have no legal ID to use to register for phone numbers, bank accounts or for taking loans. They are therefore completely cut out of financial services due to not having ID. 

This screws them over as you can imagine and they have to turn to shady dealers and loan sharks.

In contrast, Ethereum operates on a decentralized and open blockchain. Instead of relying on a single financial institution to maintain your transaction records, Ethereum uses distributed ledger technology. This means that each transaction is recorded in a public ledger, accessible to anyone participating in the Ethereum network. These transactions are stored in a secure and immutable manner, making them transparent and tamper-proof. This decentralized approach allows for transparency and verification by all participants in the Ethereum network. Every user can independently verify transactions, eliminating the need for trust in a centralized authority.

You can think of DeFi in layers:

1. The blockchain - Ethereum contains the transaction history and state of accounts
2. The assets - ETH and other tokens stored on Ethereum
3. The protocols - smart contracts thats provide the functionality, for example, decentralized lending of assets

> 4. The applications - user interfaces thats are used to interact with the protocols

Author: I think this is better, will use, thanks!

## What can you do with DeFi? {#what-can-you-do-with-defi}

> ### Payments {#payments}

Reviewer 2: Along with payments, perhaps we consider a note about simply "holding"?

May sound silly, but I kinda see a cold storage wallet holding funds on a decentralized, open, public, censorship resistant and immutable ledger as a form of "finance"... ie, just simply holding an asset safely until ready to spend, like many do with banks.

It's probably too implicit to bother mentioning, but thought I'd note

Author: I think that's an interesting idea. I don't think its necessary, but not strong against it. If you want to suggest copy I can include :)

- **Self custody** - Users maintain custody of their assets, guaranteeing access and keeping control for themselves
- **Open access** - Decentralized finance operates across border, providing open access to financial services without geographical restrictions
- **Transparent** - The code underlying decentralized finance is open sourced, allowing anyone to inspect how these financial systems operate and where funds are moving

> - **Composable** - Financial primatives, such as lending, can iterated on to create new applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Composable** - Financial services, such as lending, can be iterated on to create new applications
```
was this grammatically correct?

Reviewer 2: This could work... I think "primitives" makes sense here for the "Composable" category, since we're talking about composing individual units (or "primitives") to create more complex applications... but I can also see how the term may end up confusing some readers.

(If we go with "primitives" let's just correct the spelling)

In either case, "primitives" or "services", I think "iterated on" is not the best... we're talking about composability, as in "money Lego bricks"... I think something emphasizing that these can be built on top of, or mixed together with new/other smart contracts.

You can think of DeFi in layers:

1. Protocol and network - Ethereum rules of operation, and distributed network of nodes
2. The blockchain - the data containing transaction history and state of accounts
3. Primitives - composable smart contracts such as token contracts (assets) and other finance tools

> 4. The applications - user interfaces that are used to interact with the protocols

Reviewer: I would urge to start with the user and what the user will interact with and explain from there. In this case is to start with the "Applications enabling financial services"

> 4. The applications - user interfaces that are used to interact with the protocols

Reviewer: those are connected to public backend that is accessible by any application on ethereum

> 4. The applications - user interfaces that are used to interact with the protocols

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think I agree... this info might be nice but is probably not the most relevant this high up on a page designed for beginners.
